So far, we've covered how to make,
let's say,
let's call it a standard authentication
classic form, username and password.
We have discussed the security
issues that that has.
We have added credential management
API for auto-logging and storing those
credentials safely, client-side,
at least with a compatible browser.
Then, how to use at least one
Federated login, in this case, Google.
And now it's time to talk
about Web Authentication.
That is kind of one of the APIs that
some of you were actually waiting for,
probably.
So, Web authentication,
it's a multi-vendor effort, so
it's not something from Google or
something from Safari.
In fact, I can tell you that
after request payment API,
that is the one that will let
you like use Apple Pay, or
something like that and
also WebRTC and WebAssembly,
this is actually the one that every
vendor wanted from the first day and
that's why it's actually, it has a pretty
good implementation on every browser.
It was greatly appreciated
by the FIDO Alliance,
that's the one that is creating USB
keys and all the stuf and also the W3C.
So today it's a double effort
between two organizations
the W3C from the standards perspective,
and
the FIDO Alliance from a more
authentication process that goes behind.
The idea is that with Web authentication,
so
someone will store safely private keys
while sending public keys for our server.
And by the way, I'm simplifying all
the wordings here from the spec.
So when I learned about Web
authentication, it wasn't actually so
simple to understand what was going on,
because it's written by
the FIDO Alliance, mostly from
a hardware perspective sometimes.
Yeah, we have some diagrams where for
example, the server is not called
the server, so everything has a different
name, so when you try to understand what's
going on, even with the diagrams,
is difficult, who is the authenticator.
Is at the website now who
is the reliant party?
So, we are the relying party, by the way,
but it's like when you read it,
it's difficult to follow what's going on,
so I simplify it,
I'm not going to use the wording from
the spec, I'm going to use a more Web
developer wording, so we can actually
understand what's going on and
it's not so
difficult when you change the wording.
So, the idea is that this
API can work with FIDO2,
that actually works with USB keys,
I have one, so
we can try one later, and
platform authenticator.
So, what's that?
So you can use any solution that is
using a FIDO2 security standard.
Now we're not getting too deep on that,
but
it can be a USB key that you
connect in your computer, or
that you use NFC with your phone,
the key, they work with NFC as well.
And it can work with software
based FIDO2 compatible,
let's say, password managers but
we're not going to have passwords here,
and it works with platform authenticator.
What's a platform authenticator?
Face ID, Touch ID,
Windows Hello on Windows,
Android biometric authentication,
all these methods are known
as platform authenticators.
So it can be an external authenticator,
like an external USB key, or
it can be a solution that
the platform is offering.
The API is the same API, okay?
And originally, still today typically,
we use it as a second
factor authentication.
So, we start with username and
password, and
then we add a second factor
authentication with Web authentication
that can also help or login,
or simplify or the login.
For example,
you have an account with username and
password where a federated account is the
same, and I add Touch ID on top of that.
So next time I get into the website,
I can just use just my touch
to get into a website.
But you still have a username and
password.
In case you change your phone,
in case anything, why?
Because on both situations, so
FIDO2 and platform authenticators,
I mean, you can change your device,
and if you change your device,
your thing is not gonna work anymore.
Even if it's your same finger, why?
Because actually, and this is important,
the operating system,
Nor the browser, nor OS,
no one is getting the data
of our fingerprint, no one.
The same happens with the face,
if you use face ID in your website,
it's not like your website will get
the details of your face in any format,
a 3D model of the face,
that's not how this works.
No one is getting your face,
not even the browser, not even the OS,
depends on the hardware, but on iOS,
it happens at the chipset level,
or that authentication.
So the face recognition data is not
even in memory, in RAM anytime,
it goes to a chipset that has
security inside, so yeah,
if you wanna hack that data,
it's not going to be so simple.
Okay, we are talking about probably
nanometers, or even less than that.
So, that means that when
you change your phone, or
when you buy a new MacBook,
you have to, again,
save your fingers and
all the private keys that belongs
to your previous Mac will not work
on the new one by default, okay?
Make sense?
So that's why it's a second
factor authentication,
because if it's the first factor
authentication or the only one,
we will lose the account
when we buy a new phone.
Make sense?
Or when we buy a new computer,
or if my USB key is broken,
I need to buy a new one.
So that's why typically, originally, its
work as a second factor authentication.
We still need another first
way to authenticate the user.
But if you remember when
we saw these Diagram, okay?
We are talking about this.
So we are here, okay?
We are here, but there are still
one more layer up that we will
cover by the end of today's course, okay?
But we are here, that means that when we
are here typically we also have a form
based authentication or another
kind of multi-factor authentication
because if not, we'll lose our
account if we lose the device being
the platform authenticator or
the FIDO2 authenticator.
Make sense?
Today it works on every browser,
with different techniques and
abilities based on the browser.
It can be a PIN-based software key,
the browser can ask me for
a pin, like I wanna save these credentials
but under a pin that you define.
It can be a FIDO2 USB key,
such as Yubico, or
any other company that is
making these USB keys.
By the way, there are FIDO2 compatible
Apps for mobile devices as well.
So you can use your mobile
device as some kind of key.
And also we have biometric authenticators,
Touch ID, Face ID,
Windows Hello, or Android.
It's the same API, it's the same
way to store credentials, okay?
As Web developers,
we cannot request Face ID,
we request authentication.
Each device, each browser will pick
whatever solution it has to offer you,
but you can express, what do you prefer?
Like I prefer platform
authenticators over USB keys,
I prefer uses presence, what is that?
If it's a pin, it can be a bot that
is typing the pin, makes sense?
If it's a USB, I'm not sure,
does anyone has a USB key?
Have you ever seen one.
No, I will show you one in a minute.
Not the flash drive,
I'm talking about the security USB key.
>> Do crypto hardware
wallets use that mechanism?
>> So crypto wallets, hardware like
Ledger, they are similar, typically
they're not FIDO2 compatible, you might
have one that is also FIDO2 compatible.
So the technology behind is similar, but
typically you cannot use that one for
storing these keys, okay?
But they could technically depends on
the software actually that they have.
But typically it's not just you plug
something on your USB and that's all.
You also need to interact with the key,
that's mandatory.
So you need to put your finger
over the key, for example.
And that doesn't mean that the key
will read your fingerprint, no,
but it needs human interaction.
So when you are using the API,
you can say, hey, you know what?
I need an authenticator that
will require user interaction.
Of course, Touch ID, Face ID,
they all require user interaction